Can you imagine a collection of some 40 million books?
They would fill more than 800 miles or 1,300 kilometers of bookshelves.
And yet that is what you can find and what has been described as the largest library in the world,
the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. in the United States.
Which book would you say is the most worthwhile to read among all those millions of volumes?
We can let the Apostle Paul answer that question.
In his second letter to Timothy, at second Timothy 315, he referred to the Holy writings
which are able to make us wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
He was referring, of course, to God's own written word that we know as the Bible.
The contents of this book can give us the wisdom that we need to gain salvation,
and that makes it the most worthwhile book on earth.
But how can a book have such a profound effect on a person?
Well, when describing books and their authors per se, the secular writer Gilbert Hyatt once stated,
books are not lumps of lifeless paper, but minds alive on the shelves.
From each of them goes out its own voice.
So by taking down one of these volumes and opening it,
one can call on to range the voice of a man, the author, far distant in time and space,
and hear him speaking to us, mind to mind, heart to heart.
When we take this book, the Bible down off the shelf and open it,
we are calling into range the voice of its author, Jehovah.
And as he's speaking to us, mind to mind, heart to heart, indeed he is.
For example, at Jeremiah 29-11, Jehovah tells us,
I will know the thoughts that I am thinking toward you,
thoughts of peace and not of calamity to give you a future and a hope.
And at Proverbs 27-11, Jehovah tells us,
be wise and make my heart rejoice,
so that I can make a reply to him who taunts me.
How grateful we are that Jehovah has given us his precious word, the Bible,
that reveals his intimate thoughts and feelings,
that draws us close to him, and that teaches us how to gain everlasting life.
Because we love Jehovah, we also love and cherish what he tells us
through the pages of his written word.
And that is exactly how the Psalmist felt who wrote the 119th Psalm.
Please open your Bible to Psalm 119 and find verse 161.
That's Psalm 119, verse 161.
In the latter part, it says,
but my heart stands in awe of your words.
Now see what more he wrote in verses 167 and 168.
I keep your reminders and I love them dearly.
I observe your orders and your reminders for you are aware of all that I do.
This Bible writer did not view God's orders and reminders as just a list
of cold legalistic statutes.
And we can be sure that he did not consider them to be burdensome.
Instead, he knew that they formed the basis for the best life possible.
And that is why he not only wanted to learn God's orders,
but he also desired to observe or obey them.
The Psalmists believe that God's word is the one thing we're studying
and that because of knowing God's orders and reminders,
we are far wiser than people who know everything else except God's word.
Now look at what more he wrote in verse 165.
Abundant peace belongs to those who love your law.
Nothing can make them stumble.
Herein lies a major reason why we love God's word.
A body and by it leads to genuine peace.
Everyone longs for peace in their life and through the pages of the Bible,
we learn how to attain it.
That is why we choose to live by God's word,
even in the face of the trials that arise in our life,
some of which may try to steal away our peace of mind and heart.
And yet, Jehovah knows what we are going through every day of our lives
and stands ready to help us.
If we love and obey Jehovah's word,
we will not be stumbled spiritually by what someone else does or says
or by any other matter or situation in life.
But how does love for God's word lead to such peace and keep us from stumbling?
We know that all scripture is inspired of God,
making the Bible the most reliable guide for every aspect of life.
After all, His wisdom is infinitely superior to our own.
Reading the Bible enables us to look at matters from God's elevated point of view.
It is just as the prophet Isaiah wrote at Isaiah 55 verses 8 and 9.
If you'd like to open to that, please, Isaiah 55, 8 and 9.
He wrote,
For my thoughts are not your thoughts.
And your ways are not my ways, declares Jehovah.
For as the heavens are higher than the earth,
so my ways are higher than your ways,
and my thoughts than your thoughts.
Just imagine, Jehovah's thoughts and language must be vastly superior to those of humans.
When he communicates with us as he does through the pages of the Bible,
he simplifies how he expresses his thoughts so that we can understand them.
Then, as we take in all that Jehovah says,
we can let his thinking guide our thinking.
Reading the Bible can be likened to peering into a mirror,
because its message has the power to allow us to see ourselves as we really are,
and it shows us where adjustments are needed in our attitude and conduct.
Thus far in this symposium, we have seen how this can actually work.
We have seen two dramatizations of a widowed mother using the Bible to help her teenage children avoid being stumbled by other young people who had been harassing them.
Remember, her son Gabe had been called a coward by a couple of tough-looking youths while he was engaged in public witnessing.
And her daughter Olivia had been chided by other girls for not being interested in dating one of the guys in her class.
Their mother used what Jehovah inspired the Apostle Paul to write about,
with his ordeal in prison, to show how he was able to preserve his peace in a very difficult situation.
And that in turn helped Olivia and Gabe to safeguard their own peace.
Let's see what more the mother finds in the Bible to help Olivia avoid being stumbled into the conduct that could rob her of peace.
Guess who just walked in.
Olivia.
And there's Jake.
We know she's what.
I don't even know what she's got.
She's into growth.
She's still a virgin.
Olivia, what are you thinking?
I don't know how they can do that.
I don't even follow them.
If this doesn't stop, I don't know if I can...
You're strong.
Okay, you just can't let them get to you.
It feels out of your control, doesn't it?
Hey, I think we need another Bible example.
Remember when we studied about the Shula might girl?
Yeah, I remember.
And who was pressuring her?
Solomon.
But she wasn't interested in him.
Just like, I'm not interested in that boy Jake, so.
But it wasn't just him.
There were the daughters of Jerusalem and Solomon's court.
They urged her to accept his attentions.
But do you remember what she said?
In song of Solomon, chapter 2.
It says, I put you under oath, O daughters of Jerusalem,
by the gazelles in the doves of the fields.
Do not try to awaken or arouse love in me until it feels inclined.
So despite all of the pressure, who was really in control?
She was.
No one was going to push her into something that she didn't want to do.
She even said, I am a wall.
You have the same power.
And if you believe that, it'll change how you handle the pressure.
No, give me a hug.
I just posted it.
I don't like my video.
All they want is to see me given.
Why would I give them the satisfaction?
My piece comes from doing the right thing.
Nobody can make me stumble.
And a wall.
Olivia's mother thought of another inspired Bible example,
that of the Shulamite girl who was being urged by the young women in Solomon's court
to accept his amorous attentions.
But despite the pressure, the Shulamite girl remained in control,
for no one was going to push her into something that she did not want to do.
Olivia got the point.
As she thought to herself, my piece comes from doing the right thing.
Nobody can make me stumble.
I am a wall.
It's obvious that the mother had a real love for God's word.
New it well, and calmly and skillfully used it
to guide the thinking of her children,
to keep them from stumbling.
So many people these days put God's word out of their mind
to prevent it from influencing their life.
But as the world's morals decline,
we must stick loyally to God's word
to conform our conduct to His pure and holy thinking
and strengthen our determination to live by His standards.
That is just what the Apostle Paul urged us to do
at Romans 12 and verse 2.
If you would turn there, please.
Romans 12 and verse 2.
Paul wrote,
and stopped being molded by this system of things,
but be transformed by making your mind over
so that you may prove to yourselves the good
and acceptable and perfect will of God.
God's word strengthens us to resist conforming
to the corrupting practices of Satan's world
and to suppress temptations toward wrongdoing.
Now as we prove to ourselves that the will of God is good
and perfect, then we should also accept
that loyally obeying God is the best way of living.
There is a direct connection between
heating scriptural teachings and obeying
or enjoying genuine peace.
However, for Jehovah's word to have such power in our lives,
we need to read the Bible every day
and meditate on why its counsel is beneficial.
That means reading it at a pace that allows us
to ponder on what we are reading.
And doing this helps to fix in our minds the portions
that are especially helpful to us.
When asked why he reads the Bible every day,
one Christian replied,
if I repeatedly pray to Jehovah during the day
and expect him to hear me,
why shouldn't I also listen to God
by reading his word every day?
If we want to be a good friend,
why would we do all the talking?
He makes a very good point, doesn't he?
By reading the Bible, we are listening to Jehovah
and that is how we get his viewpoint on matters.
So, do you allow God to speak to you every day?
We can measure how effective our Bible reading is
by the influence it has on our attitude and conduct.
When our peace is disturbed,
we can look into the source of divine wisdom for God's guidance.
Speaking prophetically of anointed Christians
at Isaiah 54-13, the prophet wrote,
All your sons will be taught by Jehovah
and their peace will be abundant.
Now those words apply in principle
to Christ's other sheep as well.
Thankfully, when Christ's anointed brothers,
the faithful and discreet slave prepare spiritual food
for us, such as this convention program,
they hold firmly to Jehovah's word
and they never water it down.
We always receive spiritual instruction
that upholds Jehovah's high moral standards.
And we are blessed with abundant peace
when we accept Jehovah's instruction.
Isaiah penned another prophecy
that is being fulfilled today
and that we find at Isaiah 2 verses 2 through 4.
He saw in a vision of the last days
people from all the nations streaming to true worship
and for what reason?
Isaiah wrote of Jehovah,
He will instruct us about his ways
and we will walk in his paths
and in what would this result?
So that they will beat their swords into plowshares
and their spears into pruning shears.
Nation will not lift up sword against nation
nor will they learn war anymore.
In his goodness, Jehovah is willing to teach
we imperfect humans how to achieve genuine,
abundant peace, earthwide.
And he does that through the pages
of his own written word.
What a privilege it is to be taught by our God.
No matter what problem may threaten the peace of our personal life,
our family, or our congregation,
we are confident that the solution
can be found in the Bible.
And as we have learned from this symposium,
our continued love for Jehovah,
for our neighbor, and for God's word,
lead to our enjoying everlasting peace
in God's new world.